# Creating a CGOV color variant

Color variants are used to override the default CGOV color theme without making major layout changes. A color variant specific class name is added to the `<body>` class attribute for hooking in CSS or JS as necessary/needed.

1. Copy an existing variant folder from `themes/custom/cgov/cgov_common/src/variants/` into the same `variants` folder
2. Rename the copied folder to the variant name of your choice. For example: `green`
3. Remove any unnecessary assets or images from the `assets` folder.
4. Add svg images/icons specific to this color variant to the `assets/sprites` folder to be built into the `svg-sprite-variantname.svg` 
5. Rename the entrypoint files to match the variant name
6. Remove any unnecessary code from the entrypoint `.js` file and ensure it is importing the properly named `.scss` file.
7. Open `styles/sprites/_svg-sprite.scss` and update the `svgPath` variable to point to `~Core/../cgov_common/dist/images/sprites/svg-sprite-variantname.svg` which will be generated by the front-end build

## Updating the build system
1. Add your theme variant entrypoint to `themes/custom/cgov/cgov_common/webpack.entries.js` so it will be built by webpack.
2. Add your theme variant library to `themes/custom/cgov/cgov_common/cgov_common.libraries.yml` to make the new variant bundle available for discovery by Drupal.
3. Add your theme variant name to the exported array in `themes/custom/cgov/themes.config.js`. This is read by the front-end build system to trigger the variant build.
4. Add your theme variant name to `themes/custom/cgov/themes-settings.php` in the `$form['variant']['color_theme']` array to make the new variant available on the Drupal Theme Settings page.